# My responses to four popular behavioral questions
## Questions from FAANG companies
<hr>

Last week, I wrote an article about core attributes that make up Googliness. This time, I will write my personal responses to some of the most popular behavioral questions from various companies. Please be mindful that my responses are tailored to reflect Googliness, and may not be suited as responses for other companies.

I used *STAR method* to structure my responses. The STAR format stands for Situation, Task, Action, Result:
> - Situation: An event, project, or challenge faced
> - Task: Your responsibilities and assignments for the situation
> - Action: Steps or procedure taken to relieve or rectify situation
> - Result: Results of actions taken.

However, instead of *result*, I focused on stating what I **learned**, as *continually learning* is a core attribute that Google wants.

#### Amazon: Describe the project that you had the most trouble with. What would you have done differently?
The project that I had the most trouble with was when I built data pipelines and backfills to ingest data from Google and Facebook Ads platforms.

It originally started as a side project because we finished the main project for the quarter earlier than expected. Originally, the marketing team imported performance metrics for ads campaign every morning as csv format, which was copied and pasted to a Google spreadsheet. Then, the spreadsheet was imported to Chart.io for visualization and analysis. However, as the size of the file increased, importing and opening the spreadsheet was becoming a major bottleneck for the team. So my task was to: automate the process of ingesting data from the ads platforms and persist the data in our database and write SQL queries to return data in forms that the team can use for analysis.

#### Dropbox: What was the biggest takeaway from your current job that you'll carry with you throughout your career?
I learned the power of asking for advice. On my first month at Divvy, I was having difficulties understanding functional programming concepts such as currying and piping functions to create a stream-lined ingestion pipelines because it was my first time seeing them. As a self-taught developer, I only worked solo so far and I was afraid that asking questions would make me look not skilled and qualified for the position.

I tried my best to learn them on my own by watching tutorials on *Youtube*, but the complexity of how codes were written in the project far surpassed the basic concepts taught on the tutorials. After struggling for about 3 days, I decided to ask Anton, a principal engineer who first advocated the team to adopt functional programming for the project, because everyone asked Anton for advanced use cases. It was especially difficult because Anton always stayed silent yet imposing.

Surprisingly, Anton was willing to sit down with me for pair-programming sessions over the next two days. Anton not only helped me build my part, but also explained any point that I was confused about patiently until I understood them. It was much faster than trying to learn on my own as I could directly get answers on things that I didn't understand, and I didn't have to learn everything where most of it was not needed for my part. Since then, whenever I was stuck, I time-boxed 30 minutes to think about it on my own, then went to ask for help to any colleague if I didn't get it to work.

#### Facebook: Give an example of how you set goals and achieve them.
My main goal for the past two years, since I started coding has been becoming a Googler. This also helped me to set very high standards on myself, as I've always heard that Google looks for candidates who excel in ambiguity and pushes oneself out of comfort zone. To get better at coming up with efficient approaches to various engineering challenges, I solved more than 700 algorithm questions on *Leetcode* over the past two years.

Anyone who prepared for coding interviews would know how mentally exhausting it is to constantly tackle new questions that you've never seen before, then learn various strategies that other people employed. I do enjoy solving algorithm questions and love the moment when you actually come up with an efficient solution, but being in the constant cycle of solving three to four questions a day for half an year requires serious discipline and perseverance. For me the best approach was to set smaller yet achievable goals, like spreading interviews across 10 to 14 days intervals so that I would not become too relaxed. When I did not have upcoming interviews in near future, I booked mock interview sessions on *interviewing.io* so I would be constantly practicing coding interviews.

Another way for me was to constantly reminding myself of the goal. Whenever I became too tired and did not want to move forward, I imagined the moment when I get the final approval from the hiring committee after the onsite, and this really helped me to invigorate myself and open my laptop again to work on the questions again. I learned what it means to live in the dream and am very grateful for having such unique experience.

#### Google: Tell me about a time when you solved a conflict at work.
One time, there was a major production bug that crashed the whole service around 8pm. The whole team was notified and started dig in to fix the issue. I started looking into the error log and realized that no migration scripts were running, then one memory crossed my mind. I was working on a task to prevent duplicate SQL migrations from happening, because previously after the master process spawned workers, they ran through migrations all together, causing racing conditions and database errors. Before giving the task to me, Nick, my manager, made a PR so that the master ingests the scripts first before spawning processes.

I googled what master node process does, and learned that it's job is to spawn workers only. So, the master process was blocked from spawning workers due to running a function that ingests migration scripts which it cannot do because it does not attempt to connect to the database. The issue did not emerge on staging because as a fairly small company, the system only spawned workers in production, and nobody realized that there was a core error. I quickly made a PR that fixes it, and the service was back online within 30 minutes.

It was lucky that I was already working on part of the codebase where initial startup happens. And I am confident that someone else would have figured it out within 30 minutes of when I fixed it, but I was very happy and proud of myself that I could directly diagnose and fix the bug first. That's when I learned the joy of fixing bugs and the importance of site reliability team, as in huge corporations like Google downtime of even 0.1% could mean loss of millions in revenue. I want to take part in identifying and fixing production bugs when I work at Google as well.
